Opening paragraphs of World War Z by Max Brooks

It goes by many names: "The Crisis," "The Dark Years," "The Walking
Plague," as well as newer and more "hip" titles such as "World War Z" or "Z
War One." I personally dislike this last moniker as it implies an inevitable
"Z War Two." For me, it will always be "The Zombie War," and while many
may protest the scientific accuracy of the word zombie, they will be hard-
pressed to discover a more globally accepted term for the creatures that al-
most caused our extinction. Zombie remains a devestating word, unrivaled
in its power to conjure up so many memories or emotions, and it is these
memories, and emotions, that are the subject of this book.
    This record of the greatest conflict in human history owes its genesis to
a much smaller, much more personal conflict between me and the chair-
person of the United Nation's Postwar Comission Report. My initial
work for the Commision could be described as nothing short of a labor
of love. My travel stipend, my security access, my battery of translators,
both human and electronic, as well as my small, but nearly pricess voice-
activated transcription "pal" (the greatest gift the world's slowest typist
could ask for), all spoke to the respect and value my work was afforded on
this project. So, needless to say, it came as a shock when I found almost
half of that work deleted from the report's final edition.
    "It was all too intimate," the chairperson said du ring one of our many
"animated" discussions. "Too many opinions, too many feelings. That's not
what this report is about. We need clear facts and figures, unclouded by the
human factor." Of course, she was right. The official report was a collec-
tion of cold, hard data, an objective "after-action report" that would allow
future generations to study the events of that apocalyptic decade without
being influced by "the human factor." But isn't the human factor what
connects us so deeply to our past? will future generations care as much for
chronologies and casuality statistics as they would for the personal accounts
of individuals not so different from themselves? By excluding the human
factor, aren't we risking the kind of personal detatchment from a history
that may, heaven forbid, lead us one day to repeat it? And in the end, isn't
the human factor the only true difference between us and the enemy we
now refer to as "the living dead"? I presented this argument, perhaps less
profesionally that was appropriate, to my "boss," who after my final excla-
mation of "we can't let these stories die" responded immediately with,
"Then don't. Write a book. You've still got all your notes, and the legal
freedom to use them. Who's stopping you from keeping these stories alive
in the pages of your own (expletive deleted) book?"